# FAQ

## Why not use existing models from NetBox?

[NetBox](https://netbox.dev) is a great tool to manage your DCIM and IPAM.

Our CMDB models directly use the DCIM and IPAM models, like `Device` and `IP prefixes`.

NetBox also includes several models which could be considered as CMDB such as `VLAN`, `VRF` and `L2VPN`. We do not want to use these models to avoid confusion and design mismatches with our CMDB.

## Why not implement directly OpenConfig models in the CMDB?

OpenConfig models are designed from a device perspective.

Our CMDB models are designed from a service/asset perspective. It enables us to apply common parameters without worrying of applying them at both ends.

Example: we can set a maintenance status on a BGP session directly.

It also enables us to limit redefinition of values that can lead to misconfiguration. For instance, in OpenConfig nothing prevents us from having a mismatch of ASN in a BGP session. In our CMDB, it cannot happen as the BGP session is the central object which links two devices, hence the neighbor A remote-as is the neighbor B local-as.

## Is it perfect and completely generic?

No :innocent:

It will not cover all use-cases, but we will bring more features.

The CMDB models come from opinionated choices aiming to simplify the implementation.

Also, we do not aim to have a factorized configuration.

## Why is max-prefixes configured at the top level of the neighbor and not in a SAFI?

The reason is coming from a limitation of EOS. It cannot set the max prefix at SAFI level:

```
device.lab(config)#router bgp 65000

device.lab(config-router-bgp)#neighbor 100.64.1.0 maximum-routes ?
  <0-4294967294> Maximum number of routes (0 means unlimited)

device.lab(config-router-bgp)#address-family ipv4

device.lab(config-router-bgp-af)#neighbor 100.64.1.0 ?
  activate Activate neighbor in the address family
  additional-paths BGP additional-paths commands
  default-originate Advertise a default route to this peer
  graceful-restart Enable graceful restart mode
  next-hop Next-hop address-family configuration
  next-hop-unchanged Preserve original nexthop while advertising routes to eBGP peers
  prefix-list Prefix list reference
  route-map Name a route map
  weight Assign weight for routes learnt from this peer
```

## Why cannot a route-map filter on SAFI while OpenConfig permits it?

The issue here is coming from implementation differences between JunOS and EOS/FRR:

* in JunOS, this should be done using `afi-safi-in` in routing-policy (applying a route-map in a specific SAFI in BGP configuration is not possible):
  `route-map->term->from->safi`

* in EOS/FRR, this should be done in BGP config (`afi-safi-in` in routing-policy is not supported):
  `bgp->neighbor->safi->route-map`

Authorizing both methods could lead to conflicts.

!!! example

    If we set the following configuration in the CMDB:

    ```
    route-map RM-TEST
        term 10
            from afi-safi-in ipv4_unicast

    router bgp
        neighbor toto
        address-family ipv6 unicast
            route-map out RM-TEST
    ```

    * JunOS would only consider ipv4_unicast parameter
    * EOS/FRR would only consider ipv6_unicast parameter

    We would end up with a route-map with different meanings depending on the network OS.

We decided to not support `afi-safi-in` in routing-policy to simplify and reduce risk.

## Do we support route-maps applied in a specific SAFI and globally?

Yes.

* EOS: can set up different route-map at both peer and SAFI level
* FRR: can only set up route-map at SAFI level
    * however, our Salt implementation uses a fallback mechanism:
        * a route-map defined at the SAFI level has the highest priority
        * if there is no route-map at the SAFI level, then it applies the route-map provided at the peer level (if it exists)
* JunOS: does not permit having different route-map depending on the SAFI. A route-map is applied on all SAFI the neighbor is in. However, we have implemented a workaround at Salt level:
    * Salt duplicates the route-maps for all SAFI.
    * it associates the right route-map to the neighbor depending on which SAFI it is in.


!!! example "JunOS example"

    ```
    # we create duplicates per SAFI, adding "from family <safi>" in each term:
    set policy-options policy-statement AUTOGENERATED::RM-TEST:IPV4_UNICAST term 10 from family inet
    ...

    set policy-options policy-statement AUTOGENERATED::RM-TEST:IPV6_UNICAST term 10 from family inet6
    ...

    # then we apply the one matching the SAFI used in the CMDB neighbor configuration (bgp->neighbor->address-family->route-map)
    set routing-instance prod protocols bgp group TEST neighbor 192.0.2.1 export [AUTOGENERATED::RM-TEST:IPV4_UNICAST]
    ```

## Why is send-community not implemented?

For two reasons:

* we do not see the added value to have this option as it is enabled by default on most Network OS
* some OS like JunOS do not have such implementation: in that case, communities must be deleted in the a route-map

Adding it would make the Salt templates more complex because sometimes it would be directly in the BGP configuration, sometimes it would imply the creation of a route-map.

Additionally, it would make route-policies and BGP states more tightly coupled.

## Why are peer-groups deprecated / not supported?

Because peer-groups bring a lot of complexity and risks especially because of FRR.

In FRR, for sessions being in a peer-group:

* the peer-group remote-as is not mandatory, so the neighbors must have a remote-as
* if the peer-group has a remote-as, the neighbors in the peer-group cannot have remote-as explicitly

!!! note "some of the issues we found in FRR"

    When the neighbor is in a peer-group and the remote-as is set at neighbor level only:

    * removing the neighbor of a peer-group removes entirely the neighbor
    * set the remote-as at the peer-group level breaks BGP session which do not have the same remote-as
    * changing the peer-group of a neighbor is impossible: `error: “Cannot change the peer-group. Deconfigure first”`

    When the neighbor is in a peer-group and the remote-as is set at the peer-group level only:

    * changing the remote-as of a single neighbor is not possible
    * removing the remote-as of the peer-group removes the entire peer-group configuration and its neighbor

    There are other issues, and we did not even talk about the difference with the other Network OS...

## Questions about deprecated features

??? abstract "expand..."

    ### Why do peer-groups not have maximum-prefixes?

    * OpenConfig: `maximum-prefixes` can only be set at the SAFI level
    * FRR: only in SAFI
    * EOS: only at the peer/peer-group level
    * JunOS: only in SAFI

    Because of EOS, the `maximum-prefixes` field in the CMDB is set at the peer/peer-group level too. Then, the Data Aggregation API duplicates the value for each `maximum-prefixes` set.

    We could force the `maximum-prefixes` for each SAFI whether they are enabled or not. But, in JunOS it would mean enabling all the SAFIs for the peer-group.

    So it is easier to only enable this option at the peer level, as the peer must be in a SAFI to work.

    ### Why don't we support SAFI in peer-groups?

    Because of FRR:

    - neighbor de/activation in a SAFI is ignored if its peer-group is de/activated in this SAFI
    - when removing a SAFI from peer-group, the neighbor’s SAFI changes
    - when a neighbor’s SAFI list changes, the BGP session is reset

    For retro-compatibility purpose, we don’t manage at all the statement no neighbor <peer-group> activate. Meaning, if it is added manually, it will not be removed.

    ### Why is the remote-as mandatory in the peer-groups, and why must it have the same remote-as than its neighbor?

    !!! warning

        To ease migration, our Salt template for SONiC support neighbor without remote-as. But be very careful if using it as there are a lot of risk doing that!

    All these restrictions come from FRR. In FRR, we cannot setup the remote-as at both peer-group and neighbor level.

    It means that the peer-group remote-as MUST match with all its neighbors remote-as. Otherwise, the CMDB would not reflect what would really be applied to the device.

    !!! tip "TL;DR"

        * cannot have a remote-as set on both neighbor and its peer-group (error message: % Peer-group member cannot override remote-as of peer-group.)
        * migrating remote-as from neighbor to peer-group works, without BGP reset
        * the other way around not: it ends up in having the neighbor being deleted and reset

    Note: for local-as the behavior is different:

    * both neighbor and peer-group can have a local-as set, different or the same
    * on both neighbor and peer-group: we cannot set the same local-as as the global-as (error message: % Cannot have local-as same as BGP AS number)

    ```
    router bgp 65000
        neighbor PG-L3_RA local-as 65000
    % Cannot have local-as same as BGP AS number

        neighbor 192.0.2.1 local-as 65001
        neighbor 192.0.2.1 local-as 65000
    % Cannot have local-as same as BGP AS number
        neighbor 192.0.2.1 local-as 65002
    ```